yeah this is norman grant and we're on
astro
tv this is ralston grant the bus we are
an
astral tv they never
get burned no
they never get burned astra tv
twinkle brother sister you know one love
62 we actually entered in the
jamaica festival they started
a competition all island and jamaica got
independence
so we started out as a group then and
writing our own material you have to
write your own material
to enter in the festival so we started
you know i was 12 at the time my brother
was 14
you know and you know we won we won for
a parish
you've got to change from your evil ways
stop from doing runs
stop working by your brother your
and one every year but those those time
you know was
um our influence was mainly from america
you know because we listen to lots of
american music
at the time yeah so yeah most of the
songs were
about what we sing about i love you you
know
darling i love you darling i love you
baby whatever you know
so and that was the sca era
when we started recording scar and we
actually made our first record in 1964.
i
got the opportunity to make the record
the first record
you know as a solo artist in 1966 we
made the first
group song twinkle brothers
wow
to be independent in music you don't
have a company
to tell you what to sing and how to sing
because that's what's happening when you
sign up to big companies
they want to break it down and let you
sing what they feel like you know you
should sing
well independently you know you're
seeing from your heart
you know
that's my message for this internet
thing this new thing
there's a lot of these new kids they
don't buy anything they
they get it for free you know download
it for free
so still because we perform in life
you know we get that audience when maybe
they heard us first time on download
and they still want to come out to see
us live but it's good i'm still from the
old school and we do it the old school
way you know
so we give thanks knowing that it's what
we make of it
you know because we're self-employed and
if we don't go there and make it happen
it doesn't happen you say you want to
spend some time
jamaica is a place like this where you
know they use them
always come up with new ideas you know
so they always have
something new coming up you know but the
roots music
is the champion of our music in jamaica
right now
and all over the world
it was 1986 a guy called
wadi klesh from poland he's he worked on
polish radio station and he was in
england on holiday
and he know about lots of jamaican
artists that
stayed in england so he was seeking to
see who was around and he
got in touch with me and he let me know
that
twinkle brothers were popular in poland
reggae music was
very popular in poland so he said we
should come
you know i feel so happy
i feel contented i have nothing to worry
about
i have a roof over my head no rent to
pay
i feel so
you know and we did recording i did
about eight albums because
it was only twenty one pound twenty
an hour for like a 24 track studio and
in
england at the time was at least 24
pounds
an hour so one pound 20 was good deal
you know so i made about eight albums
you know and then i met the tribunal
tuttki the same guy what declare she
told me about these people from the
mountains
zakapan and they said they were like
polish
cultural people roots so you would
you know you see where the idea of them
planning with the jamaican roots
he could take the music further you know
and we came dub judah and myself
i went there in 91 and stayed at the
tribunal twitter film and
we got an album out of it the high
heights album
and then just what three about four
years ago we did the um the other album
um
songs of glory but we've been touring
poland
you know from 1888. eighty-eight
in jamaica was 82. we haven't performed
in jamaica since 1982 yeah
you know so it's a long time so when i
go home
we go to just recharge our battery to go
back
internationally but you know what goes
around comes around so
it's getting to the time now we're going
to go to jamaica
to tour to tour jamaica you know that
will happen soon
tripping up yourself